[Post] Cross-browser paint worklets and Houdini.how (#4323)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/houdini-how/index.md

---
title: 'Cross-browser paint worklets and Houdini.how'

> subhead: CSS Houdini worklets and resources are just a few clicks away.

Reviewer: High-level feedback: if you're targeting this at people who already know Houdini then these titles LGTM. But if you want this to make more people aware of the use cases that Houdini solves, I would update this title or subhead to mention the use cases. When I look at this title and subhead, the only information I get is 1) cross-browser and 2) existence of some site called houdini.how and 3) it's somehow related to CSS and 4) existence that Houdini supports some kind of thing called worklets

Reviewer: The first 3 paragraphs in your intro seem to suggest main Houdini use cases, notice how none of that is hinted at here in the title or subhead

Reviewer: "Focus on the tasks, not the features" is my guiding principle for titles and subheads (and general docs organization)

Author: The idea is cross-browser (new concept) and link to houdini.how (new launch)

We've written other articles about what Houdini is and how to use it. I reference them at the start of the article for context. Do you still think there should be more context in the titles?

authors:
  - una
date: 2020-12-10

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer: Lightly optimize this with Squoosh if you haven't already, plz

Author: I did! :) I can run it again if needed

alt: A sparkler.
description: Learn how to implement cross-browser Houdini Paint API's and explore a world of Houdini worklets with Houdini.how.
tags:
  - blog
  - css
  - houdini
---

> CSS [Houdini](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Houdini) is an umbrella term that describes a series of low-level browser APIs that give developers much more control and power over the styles they write. 

Reviewer: Please break all lines at 100 characters. If you're using VS Code, [Rewrap](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=stkb.rewrap) makes it pretty easy to do. The [Docs To X](https://gsuite.google.com/u/0/marketplace/app/docs_to_x/243920501110?hl=en&pann=docs_addon_widget) Google Docs Add-On also supports this.

Write worklet file 
Register worklet module (`CSS.paintWorklet.addModule(workletURL)`)
Use worklet (`background: paint(confetti)`)

## Implementing your own features with the CSS Painting API

The [CSS Painting API](https://drafts.css-houdini.org/css-paint-api/) is an example of such a worklet (the Paint worklet), and enables developers to define canvas-like custom painting functions that can be used directly in CSS as backgrounds, borders, masks, and more. There is a whole world of possibilities for how you can use CSS Paint in your own user interfaces.

For example, instead of waiting for a browser to implement an angled borders feature, you can write your own Paint worklet, or use an existing published worklet. Then, rather than using border-radius apply this worklet to borders and clipping.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="angled-demo.gif" alt="Demo with angled corners and material design buttons.">

Reviewer: Convert to MP4 please

https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#video-hosted-on-web.dev

### 1. Prototyping with a CDN

When registering from unpkg, you can link directly to the worklet.js file without needing to locally install the worklet. Unpkg will resolve to the worklet.js as the main script, or you can specify it yourself. Unpkg will not cause CORS issues, as it is served over HTTPS.

```html
CSS.paintWorklet.addModule("https://unpkg.com/<package-name>");
```

Note that this does not register the custom properties for syntax and fallback values. Instead, they each have fallback values embedded into the worklet.

To optionally register the custom properties, include the properties.js file as well.

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/<package-name>/properties.js"></script>
```

To include the CSS Paint Polyfill with unpkg:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/css-paint-polyfill"></script>
```

### 2. Managing worklets via NPM

Install your worklet from npm:

> ```sh

Reviewer: This is breaking the build because it's not a recognized language code for prism.js apparently. Try `bash`. https://prismjs.com/#supported-languages

---
title: 'Cross-browser paint worklets and Houdini.how'

> subhead: 'CSS Houdini worklets and resource sare just a few clicks away.' authors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subhead: 'CSS Houdini worklets and resources are just a few clicks away.' authors:
```

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/css-paint-polyfill"></script>
```

### 2. Managing worklets via NPM

Install your worklet from npm:

```bash
npm install <package-name>
npm install css-paint-polyfill
```

Importing this package does not automatically inject the paint worklet. To install the worklet,
you'll need to generate a URL that resolves to the package's worklet.js, and register that. You do
so with:

```js
CSS.paintWorklet.addModule(..file-path/worklet.js)
```

The npm package name and link can be found on each worklet card.

You will also need to include the CSS Paint Polyfill via script or import it directly, as you would
with a framework or bundler.

Here is an example of how to use Houdini with the paint polyfill in modern bundlers:

```js
import 'css-paint-polyfill';
import "<package-name>/properties.js"; // optionally register properties
import workletURL from "url:<package-name>";

CSS.paintWorklet.addModule(workletURL);
```

## Contribute

Now that you've played around with some Houdini samples, it's your turn to contribute your own!
Houdini.how does not host any worklets itself, and instead showcases the work of the community. If

> you have a worklet or resource you would like to submit, check out the [github

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you have a worklet or resource you would like to submit, check out the [GitHub
```
